Ian: looks dark right
Kip Twitchell: Well,
Yeah.
Kip Twitchell: We are we are on that side of the sun.
Ian: Today is a beautiful sunny day here going to be 30 degrees here tomorrow.
Kip Twitchell: It doesn't translate so well in
Ian: 30s or
Kip Twitchell: 90 some things to know 30 degrees via well but 30 degrees. To me, it's going to be to two degrees below zero. That's, that's a little bit cold.
Ian: Yeah.
Ian: It's just because you guys use the wrong scale.
Kip Twitchell: Yeah, well, it is a goofy scale is
Kip Twitchell: Where did it come from, who plan that scale.
Ian: Mr Fahrenheit for you. It's the freezing point of zeros. The
Ian: someone to tell me
Kip Twitchell: Oh, is it, yo.
Ian: It's the same is his body temperature 37
Ian: And the minuses.
Kip Twitchell: Zero is what
Ian: The freezing point of something
Ian: Obviously, something
Ian: To the garden.
Kip Twitchell: It's obvious. Yeah. No, it's something comes to mind very easily, but it was a great, great benchmark for zero there you
Know,
Ian: I'm just looking it up.
Kip Twitchell: Wow. Isn't it amazing what
Ian: Was it 60 and 86
Ian: It was created.
Kip Twitchell: You know, I have a very interesting book about this in
Ian: The water is 32 degrees. Yeah, yeah. The zoo.
Kip Twitchell: So this book is the measure of reality.
Kip Twitchell: This guy Alfred W Crosby, he talked about making quanta how Western Europe was very good at measuring things like making train temperatures starting to measure temperatures, it's a it's a very interesting
Book. Uh huh.
Kip Twitchell: Okay.
Ian: The original paper suggest the law defining point zero was established as the freezing temperature of a solution of Brian
Ian: Because that would be obvious, wouldn't it
Kip Twitchell: Yeah, that would be easily measurable anywhere.
Wonder what yeah
Ian: It's sold yeah salty water. Yeah, so I
Ian: Made of a mixture of water ice and ammonium chloride.
Kip Twitchell: There you go. Yes, that's what I would choose
Kip Twitchell: For yeah my base.
Ian: That's
Ian: Where did they get that from
Kip Twitchell: Well, if anyone joins our call early
Kip Twitchell: They'll know we're kind of geeks, aren't they, it's
Ian: Yeah, it's a bit like I rose remember it school learning about
Ian: That wind dimension of wind in storms. What's that one called
Kip Twitchell: Not, not the not the tornadoes the F that something else.
Ian: The the
Ian: The scale wind
Kip Twitchell: Yeah, maybe that's a
Ian: Win Win.
Kip Twitchell: Solution.
Kip Twitchell: Well, this stuff that I held them off.
Ian: at scale. That's what it's called the buffet scale.
Ian: The buffet buffet.
Ian: Yeah.
Ian: Yeah, that's equally tuft as well.
Ian: Zero to 12
Ian: Hurricane forces 12 zero is calm.
Ian: Five is a fresh breeze six is a strong breeze for is just a moderate breeze.
Ian: Madrid was higher than fresh but there you go.
Kip Twitchell: I can see Mr. Mr Fahrenheit. Well, this stuff. I left in the sink. Last night froze. So let's use that as our
Ian: Wow, where are you, you're in Dallas, when you
Kip Twitchell: Live in Dallas. Dallas.
Ian: Didn't look on that cool down there.
Kip Twitchell: No, it doesn't really know I'm saying, Mr Fahrenheit. That's what
Kip Twitchell: Whatever happened to be in sync that night.
Ian: That for, you know, yeah.
Ian: Yeah, so it's the fresh scale nine is a strong Gail
Ian: 10 is a whole gills storm. Oh, and 11 isn't violent storm. Yeah.
Ian: Yeah.
GillianHannington: I am chill just joined
Ian: The judge will
Kip Twitchell: Thank you for Frankie for breaking up the dialogue here between
Kip Twitchell: Scale scales in the world when
Ian: We were
Ian: We were wondering where Fahrenheit came from zero is the freezing point of some Brian
Kip Twitchell: Brian mixture.
Ian: And then I got onto other daft skills like the perfect skill, the wind, we are
Ian: Learning English school schema, but do lots of
GillianHannington: Vaguely. Um, yeah, probably didn't pay much attention in geography lessons.
Ian: Because they've got such such definitive terms like Buffett skill five as a fresh breeze is fresh for six as a strong breeze.
Ian: But anyway, I digress. I've
Ian: Probably gone. Yeah.
Kip Twitchell: That's getting there. So,
Kip Twitchell: In next next month, next time before the meeting. We're going to talk about the best sounding words and I'm least like sounding words which is a list that I can give you some insight and that's that's for next time anyone that wants to tune in early for the end and kip show
Kip Twitchell: Joining early before because the
Kip Twitchell: First of meaningless discussion.
Ian: Meeting. This is
Kip Twitchell: Excellent, excellent. I see Randall has joined McCormick Sandy. It's good to see you. Jeff's here we have someone on the phone to one for number, welcome.
12147897853: To that person.
12147897853: Yeah, that's me. I haven't got zoomed up yet and
12147897853: I joined us by voice.
12147897853: We're glad
Kip Twitchell: We're glad to have your voice, Neil. That's great.
Ian: It's also the zoom scale them.
Kip Twitchell: ruined our meeting already
Randall Ness: Thank you.
Kip Twitchell: Well, we're two minutes past which is not bad starting time. And today, Randall is going to kick us off with our good thought.
Kip Twitchell: Our gratitude moment or in insightful. What we're what's good happened in the world since our last TASC so I think we're ready to begin. If we're if everybody's okay
Kip Twitchell: Randall over to you.
Randall Ness: Can you hear me okay
Kip Twitchell: Yeah, I can hear you just fine.
Randall Ness: Yeah okay so let's see my opening thought
Randall Ness: Is a quote from science fiction writer Isaac Asimov
Randall Ness: And he said, he said the most exciting phrase to hear in science.
Randall Ness: The one that heralds new discoveries is not Eureka, but that's funny.
Randall Ness: And the reason I bring that up is that okay this last week I just found out that a certain banking customer of ours is achieving significant CPU savings because of something that I saw a couple years ago when I was looking at various
Randall Ness: Application performance analyzer reports of runs to try to figure out where it CPU time was going. And I was noticing that the CPU time was being burnt up in a lot of different spots in the
Randall Ness: In various programs, but all of them had to do with one machine language instruction called execute. And so I thought, that's funny.
Randall Ness: So I pursued that and kept talking to folks and found out that that actually was kind of an expensive instruction. So we figured out some ways of avoiding that instruction and had some CPU savings but
Randall Ness: I think I guess my message for everybody is you can be trying to find a discovery and and not find it. But if you just happen to look at data look for patterns. Sometimes you'll see something that just pops out at you. So that's my, that's my Thought for the Day. That's
Kip Twitchell: That's a great start to our meeting. Thanks, Randall, and it's a soft congratulations on on pursuing that too and getting to success. That's, that's good for for all of us that we have success in our, in our work in Geneva DRS world. Okay.
Kip Twitchell: I think I'm going to share for just a minute here.
Kip Twitchell: Host sharing host disable attendee sharing screen. I don't know who's the host
Kip Twitchell: The host
So maybe I'm not going to share because maybe I should check on that.
Can you tell us
Kip Twitchell: Well,
Kip Twitchell: Gosh, we'd like to share tonight in some way. It seems a little
Kip Twitchell: Maybe I could have joined. I didn't join us host. Maybe I need to
Kip Twitchell: Do that.
andrea orth: If you go to the bottom right corner and click on the three dots. Does it have claim host
andrea orth: For you on
Kip Twitchell: Bottom right i do have claim Austin. I do.
Kip Twitchell: Okay. Enter host key.
Kip Twitchell: Or login to claim.
Kip Twitchell: Is coming. Thank you.
Kip Twitchell: Okay, maybe while I'm doing that. The next agenda item is going to turn it over to Sandy.
Kip Twitchell: We had the
Kip Twitchell: We joined. We were active participants last week in the summit and Sandy was going to kind of give us an update on that talk about our community outreach and
Kip Twitchell: Just got a lot of activity. We have a number of good meetings today very active sandy UK given us an update.
Kip Twitchell: Your kind of quiet sandy every time you
Sandy: There we go.
Sandy: There we go. Can you hear me now. Yep.
Sandy: Gotcha. Okay.
Sandy: I guess I probably was really quiet.
Sandy: Slides to share. However, since I can't get any content.
Kip Twitchell: Let me, let me get logged in, but you go ahead and see
Kip Twitchell: Can you talk for just a minute while I'm doing
Sandy: Here.
Kip Twitchell: And we'll get to you.
Sandy: Sure, let's start with the inaugural open mainframe summit three of us attended. It was kip Randall and myself. I don't know if anybody else happened to attend, but
Sandy: I thought it was really a great summit, it was September 16 and 17th, which was two days of presentations and discussions.
Sandy: There are session videos out on the open mainframe project YouTube channel all of the all of the pieces. Aren't there.
Sandy: Yet I don't know if they all are going to be like the chat, man. I was talking about. And one of our Scrum meetings, it's not there, but
Sandy: You know, a number of the videos are there. So you can go out by looking for open mainframe project YouTube and sorry my looking for the open mainframe project on YouTube. You can see some of the presentations.
Sandy: All right. One of the things that skip it mentioned was was we really took a mmm
Sandy: Hmm, okay. Um,
Sandy: It just showed that open mainframe project community was the host
Sandy: Did you see I logged in.
Open Mainframe Project Community: This is kicking back and I can allow now to share, Andy, so I will give you
Open Mainframe Project Community: Just a moment.
Sandy: Waters in front of the screen here.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Co host
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay, I think you can share
Hey, I can
Sandy: Just go. There we go.
Oh,
Sandy: There we go. Got it.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Very good. Thanks.
Sandy: Um, so one of the things that Kip, and I tried to do specifically and Randall, you may have tried also was to, you know, really hit the mix and mingle.
Sandy: For people that came in and and put their names out there. We attempted to start conversations with them. This resulted in at least two people joining Geneva year us
Sandy: One bomb but the name of Fatima and another one by the name wipe out
Sandy: Tomorrow I'm going to have a meeting at 10am Eastern I've invited both of them to the meeting. And we'll go over some of the some of the pieces of Geneva year. So if people have any questions that they have any questions and stuff like that.
Sandy: So that is 10am Eastern if anybody wants to join just just, you know, give me a ping on Slack on but this was all through slack. I'm Fatima actually joined today and I reached out to her and you know she was all excited that someone would reach out to her and
Sandy: Stuff. So, um, I think one of the things that we were trying to do with this was to get
Sandy: Some more engagement in the in the
Sandy: In the area that we, that we are looking for work. Um, we also had an invitation by Zoe to their TASC which Randall, and I attended today.
Sandy: Unfortunately, um, you know, they went over a proposal for for pretty much all of the meeting. However, the proposal was awesome. I mean, I don't know, Randall what what you thought about that, but I reached out to jack
Sandy: Jai I'm and got the proposal. So I have a copy of it and it goes over all sorts of things.
Sandy: Like, um, when they're trying to do a proposal. Some of the things aren't well actually I have it right here.
Sandy: Am I still sharing. No.
Sandy: I'm like, Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: We can see high availability zone.
Yeah.
Sandy: So they went over this high availability of zero, but they talked about
Sandy: You know all of the, what are they doing, and then they talked about where does you know fail over. And they talked about high scalability estimated workload running on a single CEOs on parallel simplex
Sandy: I mean, there was all this stuff that I think we're probably going to have to deal with when we talk about our stuff.
Sandy: They also had an implementation plan how to configure it, and all of the work that needs to be done. Now obviously ours isn't going to be the same but
Sandy: All of these things that we have to think about. I think it's probably useful to have this outline to make sure that we're that we're thinking about all these things and we have it documented so people can understand what we're trying to do.
Sandy: But that was just a that was just a that came out of the THC Randy, did you, did you have any, um, any other thoughts on that.
Randall Ness: Well, I just was very impressed. I thought it was it obviously these guys are serious software engineers and
Randall Ness: It was very, very formal very
Randall Ness: Professional. It just seemed very professional to me. And so I was impressed and I'd like to see us achieve the same amounts of Professionalism. Professionalism. Professionalism. Yes.
Sandy: Yeah, I
Sandy: Agree was really I'm attending if I if I don't have any conflicts to attend the meeting. Again, I think there's only once a month, though I'm not mistaken. Did you did you catch that.
Randall Ness: I thought it was weekly but I could have gotten them.
Sandy: Okay, I could be wrong.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think and I thought that it was more of the architecture meeting, not necessarily their steering committee. I'm not sure if that
Randall Ness: Is true, true. This was the architecture meeting there are there, they have have a whole series of meetings they have the steering committee meeting that
Randall Ness: We do to other meetings. Yeah, I guess I
Open Mainframe Project Community: Love the TLC. And we have the infrastructure meeting right after the TLC for
Randall Ness: We go. There we go. Okay.
Sandy: So I'll fix that.
Sandy: That's not the CSC architecture, meaning. So, and it was very, it was very interesting.
Sandy: I got I got into a discussion with jack, but that's another story. I'm just about different different things and different questions that I had about the thing, but I haven't
Sandy: Haven't really read it would be interesting just to read it to see what he's what he's talking about because he went through a pretty quick.
Sandy: They had already reviewed at once. So he just reviewed the changes. So anybody wants that I went to the copy or I've got the link, you can go out and take a look.
Sandy: Okay, second one, um, you know, so he can help us. I'm just from our
Sandy: Perspective, you know, Kip asked me to talk a little bit about, you know, they have a command line interface on which is a core set of commands for working with data sets jazz.
Sandy: Issuing to sell and console commands. So we application framework, which is a web UI that does that emulates a 30 to 70 terminal and
Sandy: You know, allows you to work with MPs data sets, things like that.
Sandy: They have an API mediation layer which that mediation layer contains a catalog of REST APIs and a framework for single sign on. So there's an awful lot of, um,
Sandy: You know items that it seems like we're probably might have to have to take advantage of or, you know, there could be a KNOW THAT ONE OF THE REST API's they have actually as a connection to DB too so
Sandy: There could be a lot of stuff that we need to to really take a look at and see, make sure we're not reinventing the wheel and and we can make use of some of the stuff they've already have out there.
Sandy: Any, any other thoughts on that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Kit, because you will. I think you're doing great. And let me just say Sandy's you know we've we've asked Sandy to be focusing on our open source integration from the junior year or his project.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I'm Sandy. This is just exactly what we need is broadening and connecting us to other parts of open source, so. Excellent. Thanks for for this information. It's great.
Sandy: Okay. And then the last part. You asked me to talk about maybe you don't want to do this right now, but I'm
Sandy: Getting people engaged is the first step, as suggested in the summer with the summit contact that we had and we created an issue out there in issues under the PLC. And what we're looking for is input from others what the first issues is is a the bus.
Sandy: Smaller issue that people can start getting engaged. All right, things that that they can probably help out with without really knowing a lot about Geneva.
Sandy: And you know the whole project, but they can get their feet wet and and you know work toward you know really getting involved.
Sandy: So I think that kip you wanted to talk about, you know, really have a roundhouse discussion on, you know, what are some of the things we can look at, because I am having that meeting tomorrow with hopefully Fatima and definitely why
Sandy: And I'd like to point them to something to saying here's what we think
Open Mainframe Project Community: Ya know, so that's good. So we're looking for is your team, we're going to open it up. We're going to pause here for a moment. It's going to be quiet and we're going to look for someone besides
Open Mainframe Project Community: Sandy and Meteor Randall to be commenting. We're looking for how somebody who's brand new, they can get involved and we want to
Open Mainframe Project Community: Kind of and and what they could do to help us in some way. I think this point of it's quite common. I guess in open source projects we understand
Open Mainframe Project Community: For there to be something called good first issues as an outstanding issue in a project that people can search for and that gives them a starting point for something that they can do to contribute to the community.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Any ideas on where somebody could dip their toe into helping us in some way.
andrea orth: You know what you're experiencing.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think we could. No, I don't think we'll see a good question. Andrew you're talking the discussion we're going to have with these two individuals tomorrow good first issues. I think it has to assume
Open Mainframe Project Community: Various types of things. So you can. It doesn't have to be a single issue. It's a kind of a list of possible things that they could be involved with with possible experiences.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So I think we're looking for broad set of ideas.
andrea orth: Or anything on the TLC checklist.
andrea orth: That somebody could do somebody new could do
Open Mainframe Project Community: So one thing we have on the TLC checklist is the is the infrastructure pieces we have the release, we still need the release document as well.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I don't know if there's anything that someone could contribute around that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know, one thing that I think we could have them sandy just from our perspective, we're trying to integrate here with other tools. We could have them do a bit of research, for example for us on I soda, which is the the spark.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Tulane
Open Mainframe Project Community: ICO da
Sandy: Da I can get me.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I'm not sure about a DA.
Randall Ness: Vinci. Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So,
Open Mainframe Project Community: They could come back and give us a bit of they could think of to a drill down on that because I don't think our team knows a lot about Isaiah, they could just come back to us with some
Open Mainframe Project Community: With the various short set of the discussions around what is a soda. What are the main features of it and and how would somebody use it.
GillianHannington: I was going to say and do we have a full plan about how we're gonna
GillianHannington: From integrate with GitHub regarding like an automated builds know
Open Mainframe Project Community: That would be another place. That's excellent. Julian because
Open Mainframe Project Community: I don't know, Bob, if there's something that somebody. There's a number of pieces. Bob that we're supposed to have from the infrastructure side of the FOSS
Open Mainframe Project Community: FOSS I think it is components. Is there some research that people could come back and help us with on those things. But
bobmcCormack: Yes. I mean, we
bobmcCormack: Were always open to new ideas and
To be honest,
bobmcCormack: The build process can occur in multiple ways our current thinking moment is is towards grateful Groovy and Zoe see ally. But that's not to say that any other arrangement, possibly with different Zoe plugins, rather than command line. So it's, it's a, an area that could change.
Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: How would we, how would we structure something for them. You know what, what would we ask them.
Open Mainframe Project Community: To do it. Let's assume, let's assume here for a moment. But for that one.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That they they have some familiarity with a Z on they have access to some sort of z system.
Open Mainframe Project Community: What is there is there a small piece of something they could connect together in that space. That would be helpful to us.
bobmcCormack: Well, we have a small Rei pro in SAFA the GV be live
bobmcCormack: Yes, and prizes and, you know, eight or nine parts and producers to load modules.
bobmcCormack: That's what we're currently using for our testbed to prove a process of automated builds
bobmcCormack: So that could provide a
bobmcCormack: A source for somebody just say, well, is
bobmcCormack: The parts. Here's how they put together what process would you think it'd be best to automate a build of that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That's excellent. That's it. That's very tangible, isn't it. I like that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: It presumes that there can be some level. Another place Andrew that I go, is it and I don't know if if we have Eugene on. Is there something around documentation. We're still kind of waiting on some level of documentation.
Open Mainframe Project Community: But we've got the training videos out there is, there are some materials that would be useful, from what we have in terms of the training videos that we could someone who comes in, without technical skills that might have other kinds of web or skills that would be useful to us.
andrea orth: And their motor skills is a different idea. They could start researching the stuff on the badge.
andrea orth: Checklist stat expands dynamic scans. I mean, some that would feed into the automation.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yes, all the
Open Mainframe Project Community: Security yesterday scans that would be another place that we could use help, couldn't it
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know where you're going, Andrew, what you just said there people coming in may come from more of an open source community background, which means they bring that sort of knowledge to us where we don't have that right. Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That's an excellent idea.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Sandy. What's your thoughts on this is this is this good is a good start here.
Sandy: Um spires the automated build. I'm not sure what I mean. What can we point them to to tell them what we're trying to build because
Sandy: I mean, I know.
Sandy: Geneva, I worked with that for 15 years. Um, and I'm not even sure what
Open Mainframe Project Community: So yeah, let me, let me say we'd be a little bit more specific. We have the the assembler code. So you're basically trying to run an assemble.
Open Mainframe Project Community: To build a load module on the CLS is is what we would be looking to do. Now this is going to require somebody that knows z less coming involved with know how to do and assemble and link at it.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I don't think if these are college students who are new to Z. That's not going to be something that they could, they could come to read
Sandy: Well, I'm not sure, because a couple of them.
Sandy: I think are in the empty an empty project master transaction.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Or Master the Mainframe master. Yeah.
Sandy: Mr the mainframe. Sorry. There was MTM Rebecca my old work.
Sandy: And and they may be talking about certainly they're talking about Zoe, they're talking about VS code and stuff like that. Um, so they may have from that some level of expertise on doing some stuff, although I believe they're talking mostly
Sandy: About
Sandy: Cobra cobalt, although I think I actually signed up for it. So I can see what they're doing. Um, and I haven't gotten very far because I'm just, it just was today like today. Um, so they may have more than we think they have
Sandy: And they really want to want to, you know, do something along that line, but so you want to run an assembler link.
Open Mainframe Project Community: It's a, you have to assemble. It's a symbol. It's like in cobalt compile, but in the assembly assembly process. Right. And when Ganda
Open Mainframe Project Community: Assembled on Lincoln Yep.
Okay.
Sandy: That's what you want to be build
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know, another place, we could go sandy is you and I've been talking a lot about the hackathon.
Sandy: Right.
Open Mainframe Project Community: They could they could be coming back to us with suggestions around what could our focus for the hackathon for a hackathon be, what would the problem be that we would be trying to solve.
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know, or the the the formation of that.
Sandy: Yeah, I'm sure there's probably a couple of them have already been in hackathons. So, um, you know, they might have some some idea is to, you know, how we can proceed.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah. And if you just ask them to take their Master the Mainframe content and think about that in terms of the hackathon. That might be an interesting connection, they could make their is what would they do for Hackathon if somebody's been through Master the Mainframe course right
Sandy: Yep.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Let me. I think I might want to give a little context around that and we're Sandy and I are kind of driving as part of this community development.
Open Mainframe Project Community: An idea of trying to run a hackathon people when they hear Geneva years running a hackathon, they think we're trying to do in Geneva year. So our senses were a little too light in terms of resources to run a hackathon on Geneva ers.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So we're looking at a bit broader of trying to run a hackathon on CEOs and and use some of the new tooling, like the Docker on CEOs or a soda, so
Open Mainframe Project Community: We're looking for, not necessarily a Geneva ERS hackathon. That's something we're proposing and asking if others want to be participants in to grow the community of open source, an activity that then we think may come and ball in our project more directly
Open Mainframe Project Community: OK, so maybe that's some start there. Yep. Yep.
Sandy: Let me if anybody else I'll throw this out in the in the
Sandy: In the issues.
Sandy: I'm comments and, you know, I'll talk to these tomorrow if anybody has any additional things, please throw them out in the comments. And, um,
Sandy: You know, whatever thoughts you have around that, you know, we can also ask people to review things we have anything for them to review room from an editing standpoint.
Sandy: You know, some some content or whatever. Um, you know that that you know doesn't make sense to them, you know, is it is it is it making any sense what we're trying to do, and things like that so
Sandy: Um, that's also another another thought process there.
Excellent.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Sandy. Thank you.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay, so
Open Mainframe Project Community: Sandy, bam, we've decided that Sandy's can have the title of the integration architect over open source software.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Jeff's our integration architect on the performance engine and the workbench. So Sandy. You're doing a great job, thanks for all of your energy. That's great.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay, so next agenda item, maybe. Now I can share since I do get that figured out
Open Mainframe Project Community: Is to say
This
Open Mainframe Project Community: So here's the other items that I think we've run today.
Open Mainframe Project Community: The
Open Mainframe Project Community: We met with john martek last week, just a quick update on our status with the open mainframe project.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I suggested to john that we would like to target and I'm open to feedback here. I kind of did this spur the moment. So if there's some pushback on that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I said, We'd like to target meeting an active project in February that we go to the the Technical Advisory Committee. That's the open mainframe committee above us, and we get approved as a active project in February. It gets a little bit aggressive for us.
Open Mainframe Project Community: But I think it would be something that would be doable. I'd like to put that date out there for two reasons. One, that our website renewal is
Open Mainframe Project Community: Happens in April and we'd like to probably have that transferred over to the open mainframe project before that renewal we we outlined some money there on that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: But also the death of the mainframe.
Open Mainframe Project Community: We're going to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the death of the mainframe. On March 15 2021 as I talked about in my video. So we should be an active project by them to be able to participate in that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Any
Open Mainframe Project Community: Any feedback on that.
Ian: Challenging
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah. What do you think will challenges, what challenges.
Ian: Getting the code out there when working in that time frames.
Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Well, let's see what we can do.
GillianHannington: I think it's good to have a target.
andrea orth: Have we defined what we mean by working
andrea orth: What doesn't work.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So there's a there's and that's just where I was going to Andrea. I think that's a good point.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I'm not quite clear yet on what it means in terms of an automated build press on says on GitHub. If that's a prerequisite for us.
Open Mainframe Project Community: To become an active project. I think the code out there is something that we would have to have right that all of our code would have to put the build process may not be fully automated on GitHub.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And and the way to make an executable may not may not be something that we would have to have in place by that time, I don't know that we would ask the asked that question, certainly if we had it and we're before the attack. They'll approve this as an active
Open Mainframe Project Community: Project. There may they may not approve this if we don't have an automated build process.
12147897853: That might be a shortcut. We can take them with good mood.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah, so it could be multiple ways through that what we're looking at what we have to look for and we'd have to explain that. So I think that's one area Andrey to your point, that may be a sticking point that would be challenging for instance.
Ian: My definition of working is you can go to our website, click on the software.
Ian: Follow the instructions. I'm getting a working system, something that you can take a data set and run it through and
Ian: Process it through server.
Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think that that would be the
The objective.
12147897853: I don't think
Open Mainframe Project Community: In to your point, and I could go there real quick, to be honest with you.
We could go to
Open Mainframe Project Community: The
Open Mainframe Project Community: Go here, just real quickly.
Open Mainframe Project Community: The requirements listed under the TLC.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Checklist.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Here's the criteria, right, we have to complete a proposal, plus we have to have commitments from two organizations. I think we're already there, to be honest with you.
Open Mainframe Project Community: We have this is the key piece that we're talking about there, and there is lots gone through and done a very nice job of categorizing this and the number of these things are challenging so achieved and maintain the core infrastructure initiative, best practices batch.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So this is the area that we're just but explicitly defined project governance committee process we're already on that we don't have a public List of adopters, but we're working on that. I think that that may come complete code licensing scan.
Open Mainframe Project Community: This would be part of getting our code out there where we know what the process looks like.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And and we're passing it already with the with the first test things that we've done that, probably not an issue.
Open Mainframe Project Community: We'd have to have somebody that now represents before the tech receive a supermajority vote and and and sufficient maturity. So, you know, out of that list. Really, this is the one that that is the critical piece of that.
Ian: There's nothing in that list of that actually producing something that works.
Open Mainframe Project Community: No, it's a little bit of the list that Bob's given us on what the requirements here are but again.
Open Mainframe Project Community: There's a little bit of a sense that those requirements were built more from a Linux side, not from a Z iOS side. So I think there's probably some wiggle room in the space because there just aren't that many open source projects.
Out there.
Ian: Sure.
Okay.
Sandy: How do you
Sandy: I mean, how are we going to get someone to try the package. Once we built it.
Sandy: Did you have to have as the US right
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah, yeah. And that's part of that's part of why we're driving this Hackathon discussion sandy this to make that point and to find to open that sort of up for people to do this sort of work.
Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That was all that I really wanted to talk about one I just one short thing there is an automated way of building an issue and I
Open Mainframe Project Community: I was going to get the details on this and I didn't do that if you put in an issue meeting agenda or something of that word. I need to give you the key word.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Then automatically when we have a TASC meeting the the agenda building process will scan the issues and put that on to our meeting agenda.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So that would be some way where you can all of you can get a meeting agenda item on the tsu meeting by opening an issue and putting out in that issue a particular format. We can talk about that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I'm Andrea
Open Mainframe Project Community: Can I make you a co presenter, or you co presenter.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So you could talk us through the
Open Mainframe Project Community: Talk us through the
Open Mainframe Project Community: Website.
Open Mainframe Project Community: How do I stop sharing
andrea orth: It up at the top, by chance,
Open Mainframe Project Community: Coach
Open Mainframe Project Community: Go.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Andrea has been doing a lot of updates to our website and
Open Mainframe Project Community: Just going to walk us through that real quick.
andrea orth: Alright, so hopefully you are seeing
Open Mainframe Project Community: Us.
andrea orth: At website. Yes. So one of the first things was changing the thing
andrea orth: I'm what I was looking for was something that display the graphics properly.
andrea orth: One of the pages. I think it might have been about the spark project really kind of worked up the screenshots from kips power point
andrea orth: Um, and then I was hoping for something a little more modern
andrea orth: I kind of like this one because I like the top. I like the way the top looks, it looks to me a little more modern
andrea orth: And of course the logo is here in the middle. And I'm not on the homepage anymore. Let me get back to the homepage.
andrea orth: So one of the things I did when I was off last week.
andrea orth: Was rewatch kips about 40 minute video and I noticed some themes up there and I did some editing parts of it to kind of come up with just a brief intro into this project kip is very passionate about this and that. Definitely came through.
andrea orth: So I tried to catch a
andrea orth: Edit together those parts of the video. And that's that intro was placed there for the open mainframe projects conference but I kept it there because I still think it applies to be a good intro for what we're doing right now under kip
andrea orth: So as the conferences over I removed the links to the conference and our very nice project page.
andrea orth: That was associated with the conference. I have three links here. One is
andrea orth: goes out to a web page where there's a cut down version.
andrea orth: Of our proof of concept.
andrea orth: And then
andrea orth: A link out to the page about Geneva ERS kind of the earlier five Dotto architectural direction. And of course, join us goes to the how we work page.
andrea orth: Oh, and another thing I did last week was add some more get links.
andrea orth: Regarding this page. This page is I didn't change anything. It's using the original five oh page, this one.
andrea orth: Um, the spark page started out with some slides that were very minute data heavy and I figured someone brand new to Geneva that they weren't going to know what that meant. So I cut those parts of the page out leaving
andrea orth: The parts where it starts to talk about what we're trying to do with the spark proof of concept you
Know,
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah.
andrea orth: I think that is it.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Actually and redo, I don't know that the team has seen our landing page on the site. I wonder, maybe if you could show that real briefly.
andrea orth: This one.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah, yeah. Let's see what okay
andrea orth: Yeah, Raj.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Geneva here.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So this is our
Open Mainframe Project Community: This is our, our landing page on the O R amp D.
Open Mainframe Project Community: project site.
Excellent.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And I
Open Mainframe Project Community: I did note.
Open Mainframe Project Community: On the press release. There was a news agency that picked up the press release last week. So we had our first press release that you need a year.
From now.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay.
Ian: Yeah, that's the one that I was gonna raise an issue on the GitHub link at the bottom doesn't take you to get have to download picture does, but the GitHub doesn't
Ian: Yeah, click on that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So let's uh, let's open an issue we can open an issue on the OH NP.
Open Mainframe Project Community: About that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That's the best way to just communicate with them, I think.
Sandy: That's also one of the things people can do brand new is to just verify these pages are
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yes. Yup. Yup. Yeah.
Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Actually Andrea that so the chat. I think GV years chapter that probably takes you to the, I don't think we have that link on our how we work page.
Open Mainframe Project Community: It might be
My
Open Mainframe Project Community: That would be good to have I had somebody today that I went to.
andrea orth: Hell yeah, we don't
Ian: Take it slack either the bottom one does what the top one doesn't.
Open Mainframe Project Community: What's your comments guys on on this. Any thoughts around
Open Mainframe Project Community: Andrea's work.
That's good.
I like
GillianHannington: Yeah, I like it. It looks great. I'm not. I haven't read it all, but I will do it looks. Looks great. It's very professional.
GillianHannington: I'll be sending a link to my parents to show off what I do.
GillianHannington: That's for sure.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So there is a, I don't know, Andrew, we have a YouTube page we started a
andrea orth: Channel and go there.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Oh, go ahead. Sorry.
andrea orth: Yes, Kip set up. The other thing you did last week was create a UT Geneva TV.
andrea orth: Out on YouTube.
andrea orth: So here's the intro
andrea orth: And then here's kips
Open Mainframe Project Community: Are you gonna, I'm going to go put the training videos out here.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I want you all to know that I did put a bid in for the URL geneva.tv and it was kind of close bidding because the minimum bid was $100
Open Mainframe Project Community: And it went, you know, as we almost got it. So I did $100 even and then I was told that I couldn't you know they they came back to me and propose that it was $15,000 for the URL.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I said, Well, I think we're going to just start negotiation, because I had at least been half I had at least $9,000 to put in a second bit. And I said, No, we're just going to
Stop there.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So we'll, we'll have to get 100 subscribers to our YouTube channel. And then we get our own
Open Mainframe Project Community: URL. So when we get 100 drivers have your friends have your parents, subscribe to the Geneva URIs channel, then we can get it will get Geneva dash TV as our domain as our as our unique URL on YouTube.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Great Andrea
andrea orth: All right. And then as Kim mentioned earlier the domain.
andrea orth: expires next spring.
andrea orth: One thing I didn't think of to us last week when kip and I were talking so OPM is WordPress is that full WordPress.
Open Mainframe Project Community: general audience.
I don't you know
Open Mainframe Project Community: That's how sheets. Yeah, I don't know, all of that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: But I could, we could probably get you in contact with me on that asked that question.
andrea orth: Okay.
andrea orth: If it's not, I have unused and paid for hosting space, it could use to okay I'm
Open Mainframe Project Community: Just sorry I was going to do to slightly different topic.
Open Mainframe Project Community: When we become a active project the open mainframe project will create a legal entity and LLC here in the US to hold the project.
Open Mainframe Project Community: It just, it doesn't give us any funding does give us a legal entity to protect our IP and it's a legal entity under which we could work. So that comes with becoming an active
Okay.
andrea orth: I don't have anything not
Very good. I will stop sharing. Thanks.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay. Next on the agenda, we're running a little bit behind here. I had three items or four items left. So they're going to be a little bit shorter. Maybe we don't. But this has been good discussion.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And maybe we'll push the infrastructure update Bob to because we're going to have an infrastructure meeting after this. Maybe we will
Open Mainframe Project Community: push that out for a moment in you want to give us a quick update on the workbench and then we'll have to do something quick on the on the zipper move along the performance engine.
So,
Ian: I found lots of chats with Randall, and the Jeff and Venkatesh who are working on this with me.
Ian: And we are moving the workbench to run on top of a Postgres database that's coming along quite nicely. I can create a view and add a colon to it and activate and save the view doesn't actually do anything very much at the moment.
Ian: But I came to
Ian: A realization of something while stuff or a walk around our local park in that we don't need the 32 bit compiler DLL c++ thing that we've got
Ian: All we need is to include a an antler processor for the logic text that we can create and then we can have a self contained Eclipse.
Ian: workbench and that is what I've been looking at. I've gotten the love for
Ian: Putting have taken our grammar files and I've converted them to answer for. So the whole thing. It can be self contained Java application.
Ian: And I am making that work.
Ian: Because in the workbench. You don't really need to compile anything. All you need to do is
Ian: One verify that the text, you've typed in is correct. You can do a little bit more like make sure that the names that you refer to our genuine names. So if I refer to field kip the field actually exists.
Ian: And then the other thing that activation does is build up a list of dependencies, the things that you referred to in your logic texts that are not
Ian: immediately visible in the grid that to find the view like the look up. Yeah, so you need somewhere to know the fact that that view is dependent upon a bit in whatever look up, it is you refer to, and that is very easy to do with this new and love for this new antler for is
Ian: Very sexy to a geek like me.
Ian: It's quite a few years older. But
Ian: It is, it is very good.
Ian: About being a lot of fun playing with it.
Ian: So I've converted our grammars and I'm trying to use it and I hoping that within the space of the next week or so.
Ian: I can have a draft kind of
Ian: Work workbench that will at least get you to extract views.
Ian: And that will be kind of cool. Then I don't know how we get the code out into the, into into GitHub, but that's the next issue.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay, so the first step there in that. No, that's not kind of Boolean that don't understand that that's really cool.
So,
Open Mainframe Project Community: Let me to where we want to get to. And if we can have an internally built version.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That we can share with Andrea and Sandy via box. I think we have approval from Jim to do that so that they could at least start working on documentation. So we, we could we have approvals inside of IBM to go that route for our first use of of what you're building. Okay.
Sure.
Ian: I want to look at making this thing, build, not through Eclipse, but through Gretel because building into Eclipse is a
Ian: bit awkward in that there's no nice way to manage the dependencies, whereas Gretel will nicely manage the dependencies, you can hit the type in the word Gretel build it'll go and get what it needs and build it.
Ian: But for an eclipse application. That's not so easy because of all the strange bits and pieces that are in Eclipse. Yeah.
Ian: The other nice thing of becoming an independent thing and getting rid of these external DLL is that our current Eclipse version is Luna, which is back from back in 2014 and it brings along the baggage of a whole bunch of CVS, the critical vulnerability things
Ian: We should, in theory, because it's a self contained Java thing be able to upgrade it to the latest and greatest Eclipse, which I think it's just released in June.
Ian: You should be able to upgrade that to there and get the minimum amount of externally.
Ian: Generated CVS.
Ian: And that would be really nice.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That's really cool as well.
Ian: But they. These are things we should do, getting people involved understanding this.
Ian: You mentioned, getting people involved in before creating G unit tests that
Ian: Exercise this thing would be an interesting way for people to get in, who are Java programmers.
Ian: Creating J unit testers, you have to understand what this tool, what the thing is, and then you can create test and then you could realize things are wrong and add things to the project.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So,
Ian: That's good to get the code and their first
Open Mainframe Project Community: Well, that we can do some research and understanding that if somebody if let me correct me in, but just where you just went
Open Mainframe Project Community: If somebody would watch the Geneva ERS training videos, they would have a sense of what the workbench does right and then if they researched give us the name again and it was the the tool to create these test cases in
Ian: The J unit.
Open Mainframe Project Community: J unit if they would do some some self study on J unit and watch the training videos and start to see if they could find connections between those two. That would be an interesting place for somebody
Ian: That will be there are already example J unit test cases. So you basically can just copy one and then
Ian: Hackett to do other things and exercise other bits and pieces. Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Isn't be this would be a great area we could acquire new people.
Ian: I'm trying to write the minimum amount of tests that I can create to give me some degree of confidence about
Ian: The fact that I can write a record to the database, all the rest of the fields are just baggage to me the database record is created. Let's move on. And then I can do things. But a more
Ian: Detailed test would be to look at various variations of things like creating PDFs with our pipes or something like that. Yeah.
Sandy: So, so you keep saying Eclipse. Here we abandoned the VS Code.
Sandy: Extension.
Ian: But that's the future.
Sandy: Okay, so, so that's where we're trying to get to.
Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: After the
Open Mainframe Project Community: Opening of what country converted first. Yeah, great.
Thanks.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Excellent. And great update and thank you for all your work. I know you've been there, Randall shared with me, you took a busman's holiday. He had to explain what that meant.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Thank you. Thank you for taking a busman's holiday.
Ian: Yeah.
That's great.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And we're going to
Open Mainframe Project Community: Joe, can you give us an update has a separate movil that's one of our initials. We're interested in on the performance engine.
GillianHannington: Okay, so
GillianHannington: So currently, there is the zip code is peppered through
GillianHannington: The main performance engine. So I spent some time implementing the code in as a set of foot callable functions in a separate source module. So
GillianHannington: So it's all, it's all separate now and this module can either be LinkedIn or not LinkedIn is required. And obviously if it's LinkedIn. It's available and we can do the
GillianHannington: Switching to zip and stuff, you know, as long as, excuse me, as long as the certain conditions about like what authorized and the craft palms are set, but if it's not available. It's not there. It's not LinkedIn, then it will just say up, it's not there, carry on as normal.
GillianHannington: So, so it's so basically there's just that separation there now and it's still awaiting a bit more testing bit more rigorous testing, but it's basically done. And so, you will see that there will be bits in the code in the Geneva ERS code where you'll see it's testing to see if zips available.
GillianHannington: Yeah, and
GillianHannington: We could put those in macros and try and hide it a bit better, but they'll say, you know, for if we want one code base.
GillianHannington: You're going to see traces of it.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah, I think it's fine. I don't, that's an issue doesn't bother me at all.
GillianHannington: Okay, so basically the coatings done just waiting for more testing and and yeah so that's why we are
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know, listen well comments.
Sandy: Yeah. How's that work because doesn't. It doesn't. This stuff have to be in an authorized data set.
Sandy: I mean, why don't we, I mean, maybe this is too detailed. But I just, I know we had that problem it at my old work when we, when we went to zip. I'm just wondering how we
Sandy: Give you other options.
GillianHannington: And well, you're right. So obviously, Virginia, get your SS IDs IPS not available, so you don't have to run authorized and that's fine. But if if you're referring SAFA and zips available, then yes.
GillianHannington: So you would when you build it, you would you would link in this separate source more modules. So it would become part of the Mr 95 load module and then that would be authentic, put that in, or thrice library.
Sandy: Right, so it's the building going to decide whether it's going to an authorized library or not.
GillianHannington: Yeah, so you need link that separate source module in and it would be one lump and in your thighs library. Yeah.
bobmcCormack: Okay, okay. In that case, Julian for building from
bobmcCormack: GitHub, we would drop the AC ONE ON THE LINK edit.
GillianHannington: Okay. All right.
GillianHannington: Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Well,
bobmcCormack: Well, so, whereas on the, on the, on the, the IBM side we're tying that yeah
12147897853: Okay.
12147897853: All right, you might still need that page fix this page fixing is still
12147897853: Required
Randall Ness: Okay, yeah, that's true.
Randall Ness: That's a second feature that we would use that would require authorization
Randall Ness: But it's not something that's proprietary so
Randall Ness: We can
Randall Ness: Share that in Philly with Geneva your ass.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay, next time, our next meeting. And we're, we're at the top of our hour here, Jeff and Neil, I think I'm going to have to you discussion to the next time we
Open Mainframe Project Community: Were going to, we will put you at the top of the next
Open Mainframe Project Community: Discussion. We're going to reverse the order. Okay, next time.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I didn't
12147897853: Wake up, Thomas
Open Mainframe Project Community: I want to, well, if somebody has to drop it. Want to just ask a question we had set this to be up
Open Mainframe Project Community: Every other week because of change in our schedule that we have a TASC meeting the first and third Tuesdays of the month.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Instead of going every other week. Is there any
Open Mainframe Project Community: No part of me. I want to go the second and fourth Tuesday of the month. Would there be any problems with us changing RTS is scheduled to be twice a month, rather than every other week, which I think be okay with that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay, we'll call it sold. There's no objections to do me twice a month we'll do the second and fourth Tuesday of the month for our discussions.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Okay. And, you know, we're going to steal from the infrastructure meeting for a minute. We give you just you and Jeff. Go ahead, give us a quick update on spark and OSS integration.
12147897853: Okay, Jeff, do you want me to go
Open Mainframe Project Community: Like you're on. I guess he do
12147897853: So Java assembler integration. So why, why would you do that we wanted to leverage the performance oriented.
12147897853: Components of staffer
12147897853: So that we can make use of those from
12147897853: The Java CEOs world open source.
12147897853: Environment on the
12147897853: That would unlock a lot of power, make that available available to people to use
12147897853: And the spark and scholar.
12147897853: And there's also the thought of the aggregation phases that we could possibly
12147897853: Leverage spark and scholar for the aggregations place, not the not the extract phase, but the aggregation phase.
12147897853: How would this work, how would be
12147897853: Also side Java. Jay, and I
12147897853: That
12147897853: Out of the box generates a c++ rapper. So there would be a C or C or c++ component
12147897853: But we may skip that, because it's just a header file and also in the mix is ASCII absolute it conversion comes out with Java as ASCII
12147897853: And needs to be in the world is executed or MDS world and always is.
12147897853: Created from an article by a guy called David Stevens who happens to have in Perth.
Ian: Oh, I know.
GillianHannington: Yeah.
12147897853: Cool by David Stephen
Open Mainframe Project Community: Stephen to join our project.
12147897853: Is that they got they got long
GillianHannington: Pillar is that is
12147897853: This yeah yeah yeah I know
GillianHannington: We've had beers with them.
12147897853: Paulsen Football Club supporter
Ian: Forgive them for that.
12147897853: That's really good.
12147897853: So that's, that's probably all like dare say it.
12147897853: So there's a lot of potential here. Yes, there is.
Ian: There's a Java library. I use
Ian: That does the ASCII absolute conversion stuff as well like give you details on that.
Right.
12147897853: That is a Jay and I stuff that is I don't know Java. I've been
12147897853: Not getting very far with that. Yeah, we, we do some
Ian: Nice stuff within the workbench some sample libraries there as well.
12147897853: And then getting it all to work on z. That's your problem.
12147897853: Yeah, yeah, that's fine. I'm
bobmcCormack: Just calling punches pilot
Okay.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Neil that was well worth the time. Thank you for everybody for going over for just a minute more
Open Mainframe Project Community: We are generating some energy
Open Mainframe Project Community: People are joining Neil and my we've been meeting on Fridays. We've got people that are joining Neil and I every week to talk about
Open Mainframe Project Community: These R amp D efforts and Randalls helping to add this up and Jeff to to spread this and get more people involved from an IBM perspective on just experimenting with z.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So it's great. I love the energy, we've got going on here and you all have your, your commitment and dedication to this work, the script.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Any
Open Mainframe Project Community: Anything else that we need to cover here before we start into the infrastructure reading
andrea orth: My full request, please.
Open Mainframe Project Community: For them, I can meet you
Open Mainframe Project Community: On the community, Andrew.
andrea orth: Yeah, okay. Oh, I built a template for meeting minutes
Open Mainframe Project Community: And we need to we need to check off Andrea on the checklist of the marketing steps have done so we could
Open Mainframe Project Community: Check that off to and actually while I got to start the infrastructure meeting just one point that I did bring up
Open Mainframe Project Community: Bob, I brought up with the one thing we're still outstanding. I think I have Jared here.
12147897853: Is
Open Mainframe Project Community: Is in the we still need to make a release not markdown document in the community database.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So it seems we get that we can check that off.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And I think we need to talk about what this means. I'm not quite sure what we're and we're working on this problem. So that's probably checked off.
Open Mainframe Project Community: There as well. But these two down here are clearly done so great work.
Open Mainframe Project Community: I do I'm turning the infrastructure meeting over to
Open Mainframe Project Community: We'll just stay on. But I didn't build an agenda for this meeting.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Randall. Does this go to you, Bob.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Bob
bobmcCormack: Might as well. Yes, my time, I'll take notes.
bobmcCormack: The thing is, there's a couple of topics. One is, I'm getting looking at the releases and whether we do across the board for the various component parts.
bobmcCormack: Or do we have separate and I suspect the latter. The second topic would be the the automated build process and how we plan on doing it, or what's the best approach and what our current
bobmcCormack: Tools are so they're the two major aspects. So we'll start with release, I think.
bobmcCormack: Currently,
bobmcCormack: In a base say for GV be liberals and example was sitting at version release and these do not match to the VR rooms that we are used to an IBM
bobmcCormack: But the more major, minor and patch. So I was sitting at 000 so I'm changing in GV the live I'm setting up the GB bi macro to have 000 in it. So that gets built into the eye catcher into any modules from that utility Reaper.
bobmcCormack: When we happy that it's all stable will do a branch and we'll go to 100 now Randall, from your perspective, are you happy if we do that, and in addition that 100 becomes is not tied to the workbench or the performance engine.
Hmm.
Randall Ness: I haven't really given enough thought. I mean,
Randall Ness: Yeah, I guess I had a chat with Ian earlier this week about version numbers. And I guess I originally, I thought, well, we could just keep the numbers just consistent between Geneva.
Randall Ness: And safir on the IBM side and then everything would just kind of flow through. And I thought that if we started deviating from that that could be really problematic.
Randall Ness: On the other hand, even pointed out that, well, these, these two products may grow at different rates. We may add features on the South Side But Not the Geneva here as side and vice versa. And so it may be difficult to keep the numbering consistent. Anyway, so I guess I would not oppose having
Randall Ness: A different numbering scheme for the Geneva side.
bobmcCormack: Right. And it doesn't necessarily have to start at 100
bobmcCormack: If you wanted to go to 450 dot zero would that last zero being a patch level.
bobmcCormack: For the workbench and for the performance engine, we could go for four dot 919 dot zero
Randall Ness: I guess what I'm concerned about is this is directly tying the workbench and the performance engine together because they may grow at different rates. We may have
Randall Ness: You know, the front end being something totally different from the back end and
Randall Ness: Maybe several different back ends could work with the same front end.
Yeah.
Randall Ness: So it's
Ian: Just going to
Ian: Go, you're going to need to manage the
Ian: Document. The compatibility between different things, if indeed they become incompatible if if we went to
Ian: A compiler with new features, etc. And that created some language or workbench.
Ian: Level that no longer works correctly with an older version, then you need to manage that. Or we could try and make the stipulation that everything should be backward compatible.
Randall Ness: Yeah.
bobmcCormack: Well as we upgrade and grow it will be having different branches. So a
bobmcCormack: update to the release markdown folder and each of the
bobmcCormack: reproach would be required to indicate if there is any in compatibility or maintain a matrix of compatibility. So
Ian: I think the easiest thing to impose to make sure that
Ian: It all works in all the different levels.
Ian: So you're aiming for.
Ian: That's kind of the mainframe philosophy. You can you can
Ian: You can run code from donkey's years ago still on the current versions. Yeah.
bobmcCormack: Okay. And as far as the practicalities of it for the performance engine. We've got the GV bi macro
bobmcCormack: But as for the workbench. Do you have something to put an eye out update an eye catcher in there to indicate what that when you get to build what it's built out
Ian: There is something somewhere. Exactly. I'm not entirely convinced I know how it works at the Minutes.
Ian: But I know there are version numbers, it may actually just be a number in the file.
Yeah.
bobmcCormack: Because what we're doing with these three numbers, Major, Minor and patch levels. We're following the semantic version process as required by the CIA badge process. So that's
Ian: The usual what's what's
bobmcCormack: Governing these changes.
bobmcCormack: Okay, any other questions on our current process as far as the well, sorry. One thing is, we'll have to make sure that the release markdowns are existing in each of the root pros and updated accordingly. So leave that with me.
bobmcCormack: So any other questions on the release process.
bobmcCormack: Okay, the next one is our design philosophy for
bobmcCormack: Automated builds a both from test case and from development and at the moment. What's focusing on development and so say from a Jillian's perspective as a developer
bobmcCormack: My current philosophy would be that if she has dreidel on her laptop. She has
bobmcCormack: And that comes with Groovy built in and she has Zoe command line code deployed on her laptop. She can
bobmcCormack: Currently, and this is working. Run a grateful cast to pull the door get clone of a breed pro down onto her desktop sorry laptop. Then she can then run another great or task and that will copy all the repo files into a source PDs on sauce. In this case, complex
bobmcCormack: Thing, right, or can run another task to run build jobs. And that's where we currently working on this getting that to work properly at the moment but submitting of jobs.
bobmcCormack: And getting the return kids back is working. So that's sort of a layer of cradle and bash and scripting combined. So this is all command line from a command line operation from a DOS prompt. So that's the current ethos.
bobmcCormack: Now that may change as we move further into knowing about zone because it does exist as plugins integrated and it may offer more capabilities. There are
bobmcCormack: Saying the case of those that know that Polly Stephanie. They have a process where they rely on some of I'm not 100% sure, but it seems that they rely on db, db API's and that's an IBM proprietary product Liam dodi works on
bobmcCormack: Where they can run jobs directly out of USS but we're not using us as we're staying well away we're staying on a Windows platform and communicating in that direction.
bobmcCormack: So that's the current plan of attack. Do I have any comments.
Ian: There's another extension, you can have to that because
Ian: Visual Studio Code integrates really nicely with both with get with Gretel and with Zoe.
Ian: You can run the the your Gretel tasks from within. Visual Studio Code, which means you can actually edit all the files and see all the bits and pieces there.
Ian: You can also nicely see all the good stuff. If you wanted to do manual get things
Ian: And you can also run
Ian: Are we in see the jobs and and what have you.
Ian: Through the design the plugin that is in Visual Studio.
Ian: So you can kind of eat as a
Ian: Developer provide a framework, a developer environment.
Ian: So ideally, you can just run the script you just right click on the griddle script and I'll do everything for you, but it also allows you to see what's going on.
bobmcCormack: No, that sounds. I'm
bobmcCormack: All about
bobmcCormack: Because all the stuff that I've been doing command line can run in
Ian: In the UK in London. Yeah, you can run the command line within Visual Studio as well.
Ian: I'll maybe show you some of the stuff offline a bit later. Yeah.
bobmcCormack: I'll make a note to one will have a webby on it, you know, to bring me up to speed, because the moment my Zoe on the S is hosed.
bobmcCormack: Right.
bobmcCormack: So they're the two aspects that I want to cover do it other any more comments in terms of our current approach. So we're thinking Visual Studio with the cradle and Zoe bits and pieces.
Randall Ness: Well, one thing I was wondering, Bob is that it seems like we have a working build system right now. The only problem is the current build system talks to RTC instead of
Randall Ness: Get and also it's using build forge rather than grateful or some other alternative tool. Is there anything that we have in built for it right now that we could
Randall Ness: That be that I don't know. It's something that could be communicated to other people to say, by the way, here's how we're doing it now and build for it. We want to do basically the same thing, but over in
Randall Ness: The in the world of something that's open source. Is that possible.
bobmcCormack: The Bill Ford processes fairly well to proprietary we can provide them with scripts. The project scripts. But again, it relies on the underlying conductivity of bill forward to the mind frame will forge agents, both on the dispatch system and on the receiving system all the variables.
bobmcCormack: So it's kind of tricky.
bobmcCormack: And of course bill for yourself is
bobmcCormack: Approaching obsolescence.
bobmcCormack: So, and also the other problem Randall is to meet the CIO badge requirements we have to show that we are building the product.
bobmcCormack: Using floss technology, ie tools like Groovy and Zoe and the S, but not
bobmcCormack: And Bill forge wouldn't meet that requirement.
Randall Ness: Right was making the assumption that we weren't going to use build for it. But I was wondering if there's something that billed for it. You could publish saying here's the design. Here's all the steps. Now we just need to recreate this in a different tool.
bobmcCormack: Well, the half a project, per se. In the case of PM for builds half the project steps are basically working out.
bobmcCormack: What environments, the databases. The for 18 dot, dot, dot, which be level.
bobmcCormack: And getting all the stuff down and transfer from PDs as and what have you.
bobmcCormack: The
bobmcCormack: The, the thing would was if we put in the in the readme on the repriced saying that this is how the build process, we would recommend we could copy some of the to forge notes or the project in terms of water.
bobmcCormack: We wouldn't, we wouldn't be too descriptive, we could provide say in the case of
bobmcCormack: We say, well, to build it. Here's some Bash scripts and some great scripts. You could use and and maybe the US bill Ford's to provide a high level.
bobmcCormack: Diagram.
bobmcCormack: Or pseudo code, if you will.
Randall Ness: Right, right, that that's kind of where I was headed because it seems
Randall Ness: Like yeah
Randall Ness: Well certainly we couldn't reuse the build forge scripts as they are, but just saying this is our basic design because we put a lot of thought into this. I mean, over the years, we've had to tweak this
Randall Ness: Many times to get it to work. Right. And it's, it's pretty complicated, right now, I'd hate to like throw that design away.
bobmcCormack: No it's, it's a reference point for us to make sure that we don't skip anything. Yeah. Yeah. Especially when you start if initially because we'll still be doing the workbench and c++ and stuff like that. Yeah, yeah.
bobmcCormack: Okay, good. It's only I think
I think
Ian: Bill Ford should go the way of the dodo.
Ian: And
Ian: You should just migrate across to the things like a cradle system to build things and Visual Studio.
Ian: And the other advantage we get if you do something like that is currently with a within our proprietary built on system. We are limited to one person building at a time.
Ian: If we went to something like Gretel
Ian: We could
Ian: Do build some parallel
Randall Ness: That's a good thing.
Eugene Morrow: certainly wouldn't be here.
Eugene Morrow: Yeah.
Ian: And also be but simpler.
Ian: Wealth, we've done many years of messing about with Bill forge that seems to be we've learned. We've pilot many layers of compost on top of each other.
Randall Ness: So you're thinking we should basically throw that design aware, just kind of started fresh
Ian: Yeah, tonight, its existence.
bobmcCormack: shaman. A CALL IT WILL CALL YOU PAY THAT
Eugene Morrow: In surely it's simply it reminds us what needs to be done. It's sort of like
Yeah.
Ian: It is, it's, I mean the steps the steps that are there when you when you run the project, the steps that come out or all the steps that you need to do. But essentially, barely obvious. Check it out, build it and test it. Yes.
Eugene Morrow: And we had some idiosyncratic things like copy to Boulder and stuff like this which we might need tomorrow that
bobmcCormack: We have, it's a full service build process you're doing, as you well know things like setting aliases and copies and and locking up the data sets your summer production point of view. Yeah. Whereas here, we're dealing with a lightweight build process, independent of individuals so
bobmcCormack: Yeah.
Eugene Morrow: So that's the easier. Yes.
bobmcCormack: Immensely. So, yeah.
bobmcCormack: Yep. And we haven't really young.
bobmcCormack: I think examined all the opportunities, given that we might use cradle and Bs, but the zone plugins are always changing and improving so and we're only using command line at the moment, but we could potentially move to
bobmcCormack: Zoe plugins, which makes our job submission handling a lot easier. Whereas we don't have to rely on JCR templates. We could do it dynamically. So there's another
bobmcCormack: Step in in the future.
bobmcCormack: Okay.
Eugene Morrow: Sounds good to me. I can't wait.
Okay.
bobmcCormack: Further on the infrastructure, the GV be live. We did a scan john medic scan for us a couple of parts and then now been updated we've cleaned up the IBM surface dash GV be live Ribeiro, so that's almost empty now and
bobmcCormack: So that work well. And thank you for the suggestion, the issue process work well so that
bobmcCormack: It's done and dusted
bobmcCormack: Furthermore, Kip, I think I raised an issue for you, concerning the scholar.
bobmcCormack: PLC about some missing bits. Have you seen that one yet.
Open Mainframe Project Community: No, I don't think I had. Did you open you open an issue. And yeah. Yep.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And you might have shown that, to me, let me let me go back there real quick.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And I'm not
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Go ahead.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Do that real quick.
bobmcCormack: Okay, so that's basically it for me.
bobmcCormack: And from your perspective infrastructure.
Ian: Um, yeah, that sounds good. And we need to add in the
Ian: The workbench building part as well. And that will be
Ian: Somewhat more painful but
Ian: It's really just creating
Ian: What I'm aiming for us to create the greatest things to do it. And the greatest project to do that.
Ian: So it follows the same pattern.
Ian: Check and I do the building and
Ian: grovel. One of the nice things that Gretel does is it before. Java is it, it can go off to
Ian: Third party repositories and drag down all the third party libraries that you need.
Ian: And make them part of you build
Ian: griddle has an
Ian: Easy read if you read the documentation for griddled as a nice thing of the call it
Ian: Convention over configuration. So instead of having
Ian: 1000 settings all over the place. This still do exist and Gretel. You can do things manually with a lot of settings. But if you just put things in the right spot.
Ian: Gretel will do things for you.
Ian: And you don't have to think that's a really nice aspect of it. So if I bought my Java in a directory called Src slice men slash Java, it'll just get compiled automatically. I don't have to tell it anything
Ian: And so under the whole tree that lives in that directory will be built.
Ian: And it's really cool.
bobmcCormack: Eugene, from your perspective,
bobmcCormack: Infrastructure
Eugene Morrow: The only issue I have is one of the ones I'm going to grapple with at the moment. And that is building the workbench. You've got to include the online help. Now that was done in by that the old
Eugene Morrow: Information development workbench. They had a batch file of some sort that did it.
Eugene Morrow: I've got to somehow make that work. And the RTC and of course the greater world, but I'll talk to you about that when the time comes.
Eugene Morrow: I think it's just creating a jar file, we're going to create some sort of jar file and I'll talk to you about that.
Eugene Morrow: But hopefully I can get the output out DCS and will create a jar file and that will give you the online help inside the workbench. That's the only I'll have to talk to you in about that. I think it'll work with these tools. I was going to work out the nuts and bolts.
Ian: Yeah, we just got a copy of the the the jar file into some whether it can be accessible.
Eugene Morrow: Yeah, Brian.
But
bobmcCormack: From a good point of view, what do we deploy to get to be deployed the jar. Do we deploy the, the source of the documentation.
Eugene Morrow: Um, I think what we'll put in get is the source of the documentation and then I'll I've got all these scripts that run a DTS process to generate your output.
Eugene Morrow: I assume. Yeah. I thought that was a principle. We're giving the customers and giving the whole world, the raw data files and they can then
Eugene Morrow: generate their own HTML and PDF files and things like that. And with the right instructions. Show them how to create the jar file you stick in the workbench. So the online help
Eugene Morrow: Appears in the workbench. So yes, we will be giving the customers the data files, and I assume we got to start from data files and then generate nice HTML PDF files, things like that. And then that goes into a jar, which goes into workbench so
Eugene Morrow: Gets would store data. I understand.
bobmcCormack: That's my thing, right, if it's not nice.
bobmcCormack: But we would then have a build process that would pull it from that get repo and procession create the job and make the job available for the workbench build
Eugene Morrow: Yes. Well, I'm busy doing an automation of how the internal IBM System does it, but I believe it might be fairly compatible because we're using a tool.
Eugene Morrow: I think it's called DCS tools which is a
Eugene Morrow: Which is also i thought an open source thing and DCS tools, other people can use it as well and
Eugene Morrow: That will the automation. I'm using other people could use. I think that's the way in the work.
Eugene Morrow: I'll find out more about as it goes along, once I've got more automation finished. We'll find out. Can it be used by customers, perhaps not will see
Ian: That there are some other open source tools as well.
Eugene Morrow: Yeah, and it may be customers have their own way of going from decide to HTML5, for example, but in theory, if you've got the same source. It doesn't matter which tool to use you'll get the same HTML file and you'll get the same help so
Eugene Morrow: It may be that my process of generating the the sort of help output is simply one way of doing it. And the customers might have their own way of doing it. As long as we all have the same data, we should be fine.
bobmcCormack: For
bobmcCormack: Rain. Excellent. Okay. Sorry. Anything else you
Eugene Morrow: Know Nothing.
bobmcCormack: Random from your perspective in terms of nuts and bolts. We mucking around with. Do you have any input.
Randall Ness: I'm done more than I already
Open Mainframe Project Community: Bob. Bob coming back to your issue. Yep. So
Open Mainframe Project Community: You've the thing you've referred here is from my first PLC. The 2017 on the Java code the scala code that I wrote you. You must have been referring over to the IBM safir dash
Open Mainframe Project Community: Spark repository where it's missing from right because we haven't put this into the Geneva ERS spark packet. Yep. Yep.
bobmcCormack: Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And I do see that that code. I must have dropped that in building my repo. So I have the code in a prior repo. So I can put that. But I'd put it into the IBM Safford spark repositories right put that right because we haven't imported yet.
Open Mainframe Project Community: ERS spark PLC. We do have approval from right from john martek to do that. Import to spark. Have you decided, are we going to clear out the safir
Open Mainframe Project Community: The IBM SAFA repositories after we do the import
bobmcCormack: In um yeah I think that'd be safer kip because we could drift don't drifting now.
bobmcCormack: Done the clear out for GB be live. So, if you like, I could do the the spark PSC move
Open Mainframe Project Community: About I fix this one piece.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Or well. Now, why don't you go ahead and do the
Open Mainframe Project Community: Do that and then I'll just fix it straight into Geneva ERS I
Open Mainframe Project Community: Can think that'd be okay because issue. You've got is open. There I assigned it to myself. Yep. So I'll fix that in the
Open Mainframe Project Community: In the PLC.
bobmcCormack: Okay.
bobmcCormack: Fair enough 10 years. Okay.
bobmcCormack: Good over anybody else on the call wish to make a comment in regards to infrastructure, please.
Sandy: Yeah, I have a question.
Sandy: I know enough to be dangerous and that's about it.
Sandy: When we do a build and we are going to implement it in a customer area or they're going to implement it, you know, one of the biggest problems they had was having to retest everything
Sandy: Um, how do we, can we in any way, shape, or form minimize that while we're doing this build is there something additional we can do to be able to make it not so painful.
Ian: Yeah, we have a set of regression tests.
Ian: And the my thought. And I know Rob and I talked about this was
Ian: extending our test framework to be not just the proving that the code kind of works to kind of give them a
Ian: Hello world kind of setup so they can see
Ian: They can get an example system basically
Ian: With some example data and example views that would do stuff.
Ian: Now the, the problem with any testing scheme is
Ian: How much of the system doesn't really cover.
Ian: I mean, and and and that's that's the thing about the scope of any regression testing.
Ian: we recover our cold fairly well in terms of exercising the different models that are used under the covers, like
Ian: I don't remember, but you end up with function codes.
Ian: And the different function codes that get used. They get fairly well covered, but there are some interesting things happen with exits that we don't really cover terribly well we cover our existing common key exits.
Ian: To some extent, there are fringe cases, there are some
Ian: Interesting data issues that may be not covered as nicely as possible. But this is also is where other people can add things they can add new tests into our regression. Sweet.
Ian: And exercise things that people find that go wrong. So from a customer's point of view, they can put it on their system run these regression tests and have a ideally a high degree of confidence that it's all working
bobmcCormack: In that case, you know you thinking maybe a separate repo for that within the Geneva ERS setup.
Ian: Yes. I think that was one of the proposals I had was the test framework as a separate thing. And again, you can hopefully run it from
Ian: From Gretel. Yeah.
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know, Sandy, just a comment there if we could get our customers to consider contributing certain conditions that they built
Open Mainframe Project Community: Into this we start to leverage it will get across customers will get internally building up this test bed would become more effective.
Open Mainframe Project Community: One of the key pieces of doing that in is you got to get data conditions right to test field widths and certain
Open Mainframe Project Community: You know alphanumeric test and compared testing those kinds of things. And sometimes that can be a challenge. But if our if our customers were willing to consider.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Doing some significant masking to any data that they have and helping us build up that data repository, this would become a significant asset and building out
Ian: Sure. The problem is that our existing customers really run largely on
Ian: A lot of their own exits as well. Yeah, I'm in their proprietary so we gotta get a system which is
Ian: Kind of exit free improves what it does and how will we chain data and perform
Ian: And that's the basics of our system. I'd love to see a system that we can feed into a spark world, but actually just from that point.
Open Mainframe Project Community: If they're not changing their exits, then those don't require retesting and the
Ian: Official yeah the interface between Geneva ERS and the exits, you know, places that we could build, test cases around this so that
Open Mainframe Project Community: They have a sense of the perimeters of whatever we're delivering a new set of code has been tested, even if we don't include exit testing. Sure.
Sandy: We've, we've we've decoupled.
Sandy: The pieces enough that if they just upgrade the workbench. They don't have to retest over them if they just upgrade the compiler. They don't have to retest everything. I guess that's that's kind of the things that are running through my head right now. Well, that's pretty good feedback.
Ian: What is the hope. Yes. Okay. The intention.
Ian: As with anything. Obviously the Find all we missed out bit and we fix it.
Ian: But that's the intention is that it's
Ian: A test all the different bits and pieces.
bobmcCormack: Thank you know it's good point. Sandy. And in that case, and I mean apart from the the batch side.
bobmcCormack: We could implement some gooey type testing for the workbench. Couldn't be.
Ian: That much more interesting and difficult. There are there are, we used to do.
Ian: Some rational functional tests, which is
Ian: Kind of a
Ian: Screen Recording playback thing when they
Ian: Click on buttons and dialogues and what have you. Yeah.
Ian: But that's kind of gone gone disappeared a bit now.
bobmcCormack: You're the machines in the junk ball at the moment.
Ian: Yeah, the but what I'm hoping is that really the
Ian: The design. And that's the intention of the design of
Ian: The workbench, is that the layer that is the Giri is just a thin veneer across the top.
Ian: The models and the code that does the actual work.
Ian: Lives behind it and you can run all the tests all that stuff by our J unit test cases and really all the goodies adding for you is the fact that it provides text boxes and check boxes and stuff, but there is a whole state machine effectively and the gooey.
Ian: That we can't really test program only very easily.
Ian: Here the whole the whole thing of when you edit the file, then suddenly that save as button on the top left hand corner becomes enabled.
Ian: Those kinds of things really arguably level.
Ian: They're kind of hard to test
bobmcCormack: You made a comment earlier about
bobmcCormack: How I will. So, which is very put in, I think, instead of calling it a test framework, we really should call it a
bobmcCormack: Hello World deployment or something, just to make it sound a bit sexier.
Ian: Well, sure.
Randall Ness: Installation verification process.
Ian: Yeah, and
Ian: Some derivative of our green sock database or something.
Ian: As I call it
bobmcCormack: Yep.
bobmcCormack: Good.
bobmcCormack: Anybody else for coming on infrastructure, please.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah. One more comment, going back to the spark piece.
Yep.
Open Mainframe Project Community: There is a I'm looking for the site, but there is a summary of
Open Mainframe Project Community: Projects that show what the source code is primary source code for that.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And if we we had decided before the the summit to not import the spark code because all of a sudden our project shows up as being primarily shell scripts Scala code.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Significantly outweighs
Open Mainframe Project Community: Any of the other languages we use in the project. I guess the question is back to the team. We had decided to delay that
Open Mainframe Project Community: I don't know if it's worth the lane again because we are ready to bring in the spark code into our
Open Mainframe Project Community: Our order. The, the, the scala and and Bash scripts into our project, even though it's going to skew. Our, our source code description for the overall project for some period of time until we get other things released. Is that a problem.
Sandy: Until after the open mainframe summit.
Sandy: And that's already happened.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah, that has yeah like
Open Mainframe Project Community: Another comment. Sorry.
bobmcCormack: We've got
bobmcCormack: Flooded a all the GV be live stuff. So there's a bit of fair lines fair number of lines of assembler code.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah, this'll but the number of lines of code will significantly change. If you look at the the
Open Mainframe Project Community: The IBM safir spark you have quite a few more lines of code there, it only be for a short period of time could be. Yeah, until we get other things released. It's not an issue than I am. Okay, doing the important part.
bobmcCormack: Yeah, I mean, when you Jane pops his stuff in the details. Blown away as well.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yes, yes, yes.
bobmcCormack: Okay, good. I
Open Mainframe Project Community: Just wanted to verify and I think we're
Ian: In terms of infrastructure. I know we briefly talked about this a while ago, Kip in that
Ian: I'm unclear as to what it is we really need to do before we can
Ian: Turn the handle and release all the say the Java code.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Well, I think.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So good. I think that the discussion I had was we
Open Mainframe Project Community: Want to feel
Open Mainframe Project Community: If I'm putting on my Jim lad chef ski hat here, right.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And have confidence, we need to convince Jim and our customers that we have these processes figured out for where our code is maintained for supporting their applications.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Because this is one of the weak points of actually just have to open. I'm going to show you a slide real quick and answer to that.
Ian: I was thinking more in terms of the legalities of things and IBM
Ian: copyright notices and all that stuff.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Yeah, no, I think we as long as our Bob was clear on
Open Mainframe Project Community: What the
Open Mainframe Project Community: What the header files need to be they need to go our stuff needs to go through a an IBM safir lipo that can be scanned
Open Mainframe Project Community: And once once open mainframe project to scan something, then we have permission to put it into the library.
Ian: But we do need to do that. Yeah. Okay. And I think, yeah, the stuff in the open source will be well ahead of
Ian: The customer code at the moment.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Let me, let me just share this just briefly to make a point that I think may be helpful here, right, as I've been doing this research and I talked about this in my video. This little graphic here I think is very telling.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That as this group did a survey 400 professional developers proprietary compared to the orange on open source, open source is so much better in so many fronts until we get to this point down here, reliable support and consulting services.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And this is the place that we and the staff of world we get this we get what reliable support, looks like we don't want to lose that edge.
Open Mainframe Project Community: That we've got there for our customers because they count on us. We want to then go push you know push this farther and making fixing the open source side of this
Open Mainframe Project Community: That's our opportunity. It's a serious opportunity for us to do that do that right
bobmcCormack: Will Randall rise that same issue during yesterday's call with the team, ensuring that we have a process of when we update source in get we don't lose that. And we need to keep the RTC in sync. Yes, processes there upon yeah yeah
Open Mainframe Project Community: I think that the processes into your question specifically we have authority. And I think Bob clear on what the steps are for us to
Open Mainframe Project Community: To release any of our code out to
Open Mainframe Project Community: To the GV environment. There's nothing legally keeping us from doing that.
Cool.
Ian: My aim is to get get a view that
Ian: I can create all some columns, some logic text hit the activate button and it'll do something in at that point, I'd like to kind of release it now.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Good. Let me go further. We also have approval for a specific license from IBM. That is an evaluation license that can include see
Open Mainframe Project Community: Jillian's got the work done to remove zips or maybe this evaluation license isn't really required about we have an ability to go put out executable files under a special IBM evaluation license that has very few restrictions for customers on that we build internally.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And and they could download and begin using them immediately.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So we've got a little bit of flexibility here and we can do that in, in, we don't have to have the whole greatest thing done and built
Open Mainframe Project Community: If we can build it under our existing build processes and make an executable. That is a is equivalent functionally equivalent to what we're going to make an open source.
Open Mainframe Project Community: We can put that out there for people to download and begin using
bobmcCormack: Just on another question to you in or not a question but I'll send you examples of the copyright statements, you can put in each individual part
bobmcCormack: As far as uploading to get you can when you get into getting I think you'd know there's any way you can point to adapt to a folder on your laptop, and then the copy all the paths cross accordingly.
Ian: So,
Eugene Morrow: Bob, can you send that to me as well. Sure.
bobmcCormack: Okay. Oh, I think we've done infrastructure to death. No more questions last and final call
bobmcCormack: Know. Excellent. Okay. Keep you can put the lid on it.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Thank you, Bob. Thanks for running an effective meaning of the year. We're at the heart of of you guys are doing great. This is just, I love where we're going. Thanks for all your hard work and your intelligence commitment to this. Thanks for joining me.
Eugene Morrow: Thank you. Kim.
Open Mainframe Project Community: And Bob
Open Mainframe Project Community: Bob, would you would you give us a good thought to start our next TASC meeting like Randall did today. Could you
bobmcCormack: Very basic one. Yes.
bobmcCormack: Yeah, you know, I got to get free drinks of IBM at the new IBM office opening today.
Open Mainframe Project Community: So,
Open Mainframe Project Community: You can share how that went up the next the next TLC to get us started, that'd be great. Okay.
bobmcCormack: Good or bad
Open Mainframe Project Community: Excellent.
Open Mainframe Project Community: Thanks. Have a good day.
Eugene Morrow: Everyone
Bye.